doc: upgrade guide for v1.13.0 (#1659)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: website/docs/guides/1.13.0-upgrade-guide.html.markdown

---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas Provider 1.13.0: Upgrade and Information Guide"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-guides-1130-upgrade-guide"
description: |-
MongoDB Atlas Provider 1.13.0: Upgrade and Information Guide
---

> # MongoDB Atlas Provider 1.13.0: Upgrade and Information Guide

Reviewer: this PR https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/1640 has a breaking change which i think we should list here

Reviewer: @oarbusi Did you use the correct tag when generating the changelog? You need to update the tag to 1.13.1-pre before running the github changelog binary. I am asking because the github changelog should have picked automatically the breaking change

Author: @andreaangiolillo #1640 was merged after v1.13.0 as far as I understand, so not included in that release which this upgrade guide refers to.

Reviewer 2: I see it is present here: https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/1656 (1.13.1 change log), not sure if it was manually moved away from Breaking Changes section. To keep in mind this is the migration guide for 1.13.0.

Reviewer: Good point. Moving this conversation to the other PR. 

We could discuss if it makes sense to add an upgrade guide for 1.13.1 to?

The Terraform MongoDB Atlas Provider version 1.13.0 has a number of new and exciting features.

**New Resources, Data Sources, and Features:**

> - You can now manage [MongoDB Atlas Search Node](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-search/atlas-search-overview/#search-nodes-architecture) with [`mongodbatlas_search_deployment`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/search_deployment).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can now manage [MongoDB Atlas Search Nodes](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-search/atlas-search-overview/#search-nodes-architecture) with `mongodbatlas_search_deployment` [resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/search_deployment) and [data source](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/data-sources/search_deployment).
```

- You can now leverage [`type`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/#tag/Atlas-Search/operation/createAtlasSearchIndex) and [`fields`](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/#tag/Atlas-Search/operation/createAtlasSearchIndex) parameters in [`mongodbatlas_search_index`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/search_index) resource.

1.13.0 also includes other general improvements, bug fixes, and several key documentation updates. See the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for more specific information.

> 

Author: from the [changelog](https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v1130-2023-11-21) I can't see any breaking change, deprecation or removal to include those sections here. I double checked with @AgustinBettati and it seems there isn't any. Let me know if there is and I will include it
